#summary Using SIMPLE-RGB

= Introduction =

This library was designed to be used by another library which generates SVG files.  It is currently focused on the small set of basic color manipulations (lightening, compliments, etc) you might use to generate a color palette for a GUI or web page.

It's currently known to work with SBCL (on OSX and Linux) and !LispWorks (OSX).

= Examples =

_wanting_


= Package =

The package name is *`:simple-rgb`*, with a single nickname, *`:rgb`*.

== Conditions and Restarts ==

_condition_
*`hsv-type-error`*
  This condition is raised by *`hsv`* if any of the three values passed to it falls outside the range 0.0
  through  1.0.

There are no restarts.

== Functions ==

_function_
*`rgb`* _`r g b` => rgb-vector_
  This is the only way to create a literal RGB value the rest of the library will accept.  Each color element is an
  integer between 0 and 255.  Anything outside this range, or of a non-integer type, will raise a
  `type-error` condition.

_function_
*`rgb=`* _`a b` => boolean_
  Tests RGB equality.

_function_
*`hsv`* _`h s v` => hsv-vector_
  This is the only way to create a literal HSV value the rest of the library will accept.  Each of the values has to
  be a float between 0.0 and 1.0.  A range or type problem will result in a `hsv-type-error` condition being raised.

  Note that some HSV libraries represent the _h_ element in degrees — this one does not.

_function_
*`mix-rgb`* _`a b &key (alpha 0.5)` => rgb-vector_
  Blends two RGB colors.  By default the mix is even, but by setting the `:alpha` keyword you can weight the mix,
  with 0.0 simply returning the first argument, 1.0 the second.

_function_
*`lighten-rgb`* _`a` => rgb-vector_
  Lightens a color by mixing it with white with an alpha of 0.5.  For different shading use *`mix-rgb`* directly.

_function_
*`darken-rgb`* _`a` => rgb-vector_
  Darkens a color by mixing it with black with an alpha of 0.5.  For different shading use *`mix-rgb`* directly.

_function_
*`greyscale-rgb`* _`a` => rgb-vector_
  Converts a color to greyscale by setting each color element to the value _0.3r + 0.59g + 0.11b_.  See: 
  [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grayscale Grayscale].

_function_
*`invert-rgb`* _`a` => rgb-vector_
  Inverts a color.

_function_
*`compliment-rgb`* _`a` => rgb-vector_
  Creates the compliment of the color using the forumla described at [http://livedocs.adobe.com/en_US/Illustrator/13.0/help.html?content=WS714a382cdf7d304e7e07d0100196cbc5f-6288.html Adobe].

_function_
*`rgb->hsv`* _`a` => hsv-vector_
  Converts an RGB value to HSV.

_function_
*`hsv->rgb`* _`a` => rgb-vector_
  Converts and HSV value to RGB.

_function_
*`rotate-hsv`* _`a rotation` => hsv-vector_
  Rotates the hue of a HSV color.  The rotation is expressed in degrees, rather than the 0.0-1.0 range used
  by the rest of the library.  Palettes of complimentary and contrasting colors are readily though of
  in terms of rotating a color wheel, and I've used degrees here since that's more natural for me, at least, to
  think about.

_function_
*`rotate-rgb`* _`a rotation` => rgb-vector_
  This convenience function is equivalent to: {{{(hsv->rgb (rotate-hsv (rgb->hsv a) rotation))}}}

_function_
*`xmlify-rgb`* _`a` => x/html-color-string_
  Turns an RGB value into a string of the form `#FFAADD`.